the enigma machines were a series of electro-mechanical rotor cipher machines developed and used in the early-to mid-twentieth century to protect commercial,
diplomatic and military communication. enigma was invented by the german engineer arthur scherbius at the end of world war one. early models were used commercially
from the early nineteen twenties, and adopted by military and government services of several countries, most notably nazi germany before and during world war two.
several different enigma models were produced, but the german military models are the most commonly recognised. however, japanese and italian models have been used.

german military messages enciphered on the enigma machine were first broken by the polish cipher bureau,beginning in december nineteen thirty two. this success was
a result of efforts by three polish cryptanalysts, marian rejewski, jerzy rozycki and henryk zygalski, working for polish military intelligence. rejewski
reverse-engineered the device, using theoretical mathematics and material supplied by french military intelligence. subsequently, the three mathematicians designed
mechanical devices for breaking enigma ciphers, including the cryptologic bomb. from nineteen thirty eight onwards, additional complexity was repeatedly added to
the enigma machines, making decryption more difficult and requiring further equipment and personnel-more than the poles could readily produce.

on twenty six and twenty seven july nineteen thirty nine,in pyry near warsaw, the poles initiated french and british military intelligence representatives into their
enigma-decryption techniques and equipment, including zygalski sheets and the cryptologic bomb, and promised each delegation a polish-reconstructed enigma. the demonstration
represented a vital basis for the later british continuation and effort. during the war, british cryptologists decrypted a vast number of messages enciphered on enigma.
alan turing was the central force in breaking the enigma. the intelligence gleaned from this source, codenamed "ultra" by the british, was a substantial aid to the allied war effort.

though enigma had some cryptographic weaknesses, in practice it was german procedural flaws, operator mistakes, failure to systematically introduce changes in encipherment
procedures, and allied capture of key tables and hardware that, during the war, enabled allied cryptologists to succeed and "turned the tide" in the allies' favor. the end.