how google's alphago beat a go world champion

alphago is a computer program developed by google deepmind in london to play the board game go.
in october twenty fifteen, it became the first computer go program to beat a professional human go player 
without handicaps on a full-sized nineteen by nineteen board. in march twenty sixteen, it beat lee sedol in a five-game match, 
the first time a computer go program has beaten a nine-dan professional without handicaps. although it lost to lee sedol in the 
fourth game, lee resigned the final game, giving a final score of four games to one in favour of alphago. in recognition of 
beating lee sedol, alphago was awarded an honorary nine-dan by the korea baduk association.

alphago's algorithm uses a monte carlo tree search to find its moves based on knowledge previously "learned" by machine learning, 
specifically by an artificial neural network (a deep learning method) by extensive training, 

at its core, the game of go, which originated in china more than twenty five hundred years ago, is an abstract war simulation. 
players start with a completely blank board and place black and white stones, one at a time, to surround territory. once placed, 
stones do not move, and they are removed only if they are "killed"-that is, surrounded completely by the opponent's stones. and 
so the game goes-black stone, white stone, black stone, white stone-until the board is covered in an intricate tapestry of black and white.

the rules of go are simple and take only a few minutes to learn, but the possibilities are seemingly endless. however, the number of 
potential legal board positions is greater than the number of atoms in the universe.

what we learned in seoul with alphago? go isn't just a game-it is a living, breathing culture of players, analysts, fans, and legends. 
over the last 10 days in seoul, south korea, we have been lucky enough to witness some of that incredible excitement firsthand. 
we have also had the chance to see something that is never happened before: deepmind's alphago took on and defeated legendary go player, 
lee sedol (nine-dan professional with eighten world titles), marking a major milestone for artificial intelligence.