twenty sixteen turkish coup detat attempts

on fifteen july twenty sixteen, a coup detat was attempted in turkey against state institutions, including, but not limited to the government. 
the attempt was carried out by a faction within the turkish armed forces that organized themselves as the peace at home council. they attempted 
to seize control of several key places in ankara, istanbul, and elsewhere, but failed to do so after forces loyal to the state defeated them. 
the council cited an erosion of secularism, the elimination of democratic rule, a disregard for human rights, and turkey's loss of credibility 
in the international arena as reasons for the coup. the government accused the coup leaders of being linked to the gulen movement-a group designated 
as a terrorist organization by the turkish government and led by fethullah gulen, a self exile.

during the coup, over three zero zero people were killed and more than two one zero zero were injured. many government buildings, including the turkish 
parliament and the presidential palace, were damaged. mass arrests followed, with at least six zero zero zero detained, including at least twenty eight thirty nine
soldiers and, for reasons that remain unclear, twenty seven and fourty five judges. fifteen thousand education staff were also suspended and the licenses of 
twenty one thousand teachers working at private institutions were revoked as well after the government alleged they were loyal to gulen.

reactions to the event were largely against the coup attempt, both domestically and internationally. the main opposition parties in turkey condemned the attempt, 
while several international leaders-such as those from the united states, nato, and the european union-called for "respect of the democratic institutions 
in turkey and its elected officials." international organizations expressed themselves against the coup as well. the united nations security council, 
however, did not denounce the coup after disagreements over the phrasing of a statement.

president recep tayyip erdogan accused the head of united states central command of "siding with coup plotters," and the turkish government made a request 
to the united states to extradite fethullah gulen (a turkish cleric in exile in the united states) to turkey. erdogan accuses gulen of being behind the coup-a claim 
that gulen denies-and accused the united states of harboring him.
